React static app with Azure serverless functions (#1131)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-04-06-react-azure-functions.md

  - "The forecast calls for 100% cloud! ☁️ Build a #react @AzureStaticApps with powered by serverless @AzureFunctions! ⚡"
image: blog/react-azure-functions/react-azure-serverless-social.jpg
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-azure-functions-example
---

Microsoft's Azure platform has as many high-tech products as anyone could ever want. Among these is the [Azure Static Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/static/). As the name suggests, the platform hosts static web apps that don't require a back end. Azure supports React, Angular, Vue, Gatsby, and many more out of the box.

However, you may run into a situation where you need a little back-end support. You can imagine where you might need the backend to run one or two API calls. For this task, Azure offers the [Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/functions/) platform as well. Functions is a serverless computing platform that supports .NET, Node.js, Python, etc. It takes setting up a server, building logging and exception handling, and providing a high availability environment at a reasonable price.

> This tutorial will show you how to create a React application and deploy it to Azure Static Web Apps. This application will be on the Azure free tier, so you will not be able to rely on the built-in authentication providers that connect Azure and Okta to handle the authentication. Therefore you will use the `okta-react` package from Okta to secure your SPA manually. Once the user authenticates, they may upload an image and receive a badge from a serverless Azure function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will show you how to create a React application and deploy it to Azure Static Web Apps. This application will be on the Azure free tier, so you will not be able to rely on the built-in authentication providers that connect Azure and Okta to handle the authentication. Therefore you will use the `okta-react` package from Okta to secure your single page application (SPA) manually. Once the user authenticates, they may upload an image and receive a badge from a serverless Azure function.
```
spell out the acronym the first time

- wrap the `BrowserRouter` component from `react-router-dom` so you can access the `Routes` and `Route` objects in child components

Add the `AppWithRouterAccess.jsx` file to your `src` directory and add the following code to it.

```jsx
import "./App.css";

import { Route, useHistory } from "react-router-dom";
import { OktaAuth, toRelativeUrl } from "@okta/okta-auth-js";
import { Security, LoginCallback } from "@okta/okta-react";

import Home from "./Home";

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
  issuer: "https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default",
  clientId: "{yourOktaClientId}",
  redirectUri: window.location.origin + "/login/callback",
});

function AppWithRouterAccess() {
  const history = useHistory();

  const restoreOriginalUri = async (_oktaAuth, originalUri) => {
    history.replace(toRelativeUrl(originalUri || "/", window.location.origin));
  };

  return (
    <Security oktaAuth={oktaAuth} restoreOriginalUri={restoreOriginalUri}>
      <Route path="/" component={Home} />
      <Route path="/login/callback" component={LoginCallback} />
    </Security>
  );
}

export default AppWithRouterAccess;
```

> This component creates the routes for your `Home` and `LoginCallback` components. It also initializes the `OktaAuth` object, which is passed into the `Security` component for the children to use. To do this, you will use the `clientId` and `issuer` that the Okta CLI returned when you created your Okta app and replace `{yourOktaClientId}` and `{yourOktaDomain}`. If you used a server other than your `default` authorization server, you would need to change the entire issuer, not just your domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component creates the routes for your `Home` and `LoginCallback` components. It also initializes the `OktaAuth` object, which is passed into the `Security` component for the children to use. To do this, use the `clientId` and `issuer` that the Okta CLI returned when you created your Okta app and replace `{yourOktaClientId}` and `{yourOktaDomain}`. If you used a server other than your `default` authorization server, you will need to change the entire issuer, not just your domain.
```
tuning the tenses for readability

        )}
        {authState?.isAuthenticated && (
          <div>
            <p className="lead">To Create your badge, upload your image below</p>
            <input onChange={acceptImage} name="image" type="file" />
            <button className="btn btn-primary" onClick={createBadge}>
              Upload
            </button>
            <br />
            {display && <img className="pt-4" alt="your MIB badge" src={display}></img>}
          </div>
        )}

        <footer
          className="bg-light text-center fixed-bottom"
          style={{
            width: "100%",
            padding: "0 15px",
          }}
        >
          <p>
            A Small demo using <a href="https://developer.okta.com/">Okta</a> to Secure an{" "}
            <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/static/">Azure Static Web App </a> with a serverless{" "}
            <a href="https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/functions/">Function</a>
          </p>
          <p>
            By <a href="https://github.com/nickolasfisher">Nik Fisher</a>
          </p>
        </footer>
      </main>
    </div>
  );
}

export default Home;
```
{% endraw %}

> This file contains the bulk of your logic. First, it provides Login/Logout functionality using the `useOktaAuth` hook. With this hook, you can determine the user's authenticated state. If the user is not, then prompt them to do so; otherwise, you will allow them to use the badge creator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file contains the bulk of your logic. First, it provides Login/Logout functionality using the `useOktaAuth` hook. With this hook, you can determine the user's authenticated state. If the user is not authenticated,  prompt them to do so; otherwise, you will allow them to use the badge creator.
```
clarity

> The badge creator logic prompts users to upload a photo of themselves for the template. It then posts this to the nebulous `api/CreateBadge`. This route stands for the CreateBadge function that you will create later in this article. Azure will know how to find that route whether you're running this application locally on Azure's emulator or Azure's infrastructure. It will even be able to route to the appropriate environment on Azure's servers.

Reviewer: Should "CreateBadge" be in code markup ?

Author: Yes, it should. Will fix 👍🏼

> A note here, you would likely expect to send the `accessToken` in the `Authorization` header; however, Azure overwrites the `Authorization` header with its token by default. You can eliminate this step on the standard pricing model by using the custom providers in the Static Web App and the Function. However, you will need to use this workaround on the free model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A note here: You might expect to send the `accessToken` in the `Authorization` header; however, Azure overwrites the `Authorization` header with its token by default. You can eliminate this step on the Azure standard pricing model by using the custom providers in the Static Web App and the Function. However, you will need to use this workaround on the free model.
```
please verify which free vs paid service we're speaking about - Azure vs Okta. I think it's Azure here...

Author: ah, correct. thanks for clarifying

> In this tutorial, the client sends the username from the ID Token. Ideally, the Azure Function should retrieve the username from making a call to the `/userprofile` endpoint. By having the Azure Function handle this, you can ensure you get the accurate username and not rely on the client potentially sending something inaccurate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, the client sends the username from the ID token. Ideally, the Azure Function should retrieve the username by making a call to the `/userprofile` endpoint. By having the Azure Function handle this, you can ensure you get the accurate username without relying on the client to send something potentially inaccurate.
```
capitalization 
clarity - pls verify that changing "from" to "by" is still accurate. I think it makes more sense idiomatically.

> One other note is that environment variables do not work at this time on Static Web Apps. If you attempt to use `process.env.{variable}` in your code and set it in the application settings, it will not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One other note: Environment variables do not work at this time on Static Web Apps. If you attempt to use `process.env.{variable}` in your code and set it in the application settings, it will not work.
```
conciseness

Finally, add `StaticWebApp.config.json` to your `azure-static-app` directory and add the code below.

```JSON
{
    "navigationFallback": {
      "rewrite": "/index.html"
    }
}
```

> This configuration file is necessary for SPAs to handle routing on the client. Specifically, you will need this for the `login/callback` route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration file is necessary for single page apps to handle routing on the client. Specifically, you will need this for the `login/callback` route.
```
spelling it out for variation

### Test your React application

At this point, you can ensure your React application is working and connected to Okta properly. In the root of your React application, add a new file called `.env` and add the following code to it.

```JSON
PORT=4280
```

The Azure emulator will run the application on 4280 by default, so we set up the Okta application to allow that port. However, React usually runs the application on port 3000. Using `.env` to set the port will enable us to override that behavior and run the app on 4280.  

> Next, run the `npm run start` command in your React application's directory. You should be able to see your home screen and login into Okta, but you will not be able to use the image feature yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, run the `npm run start` command in your React application's directory. You should be able to see your home screen and log in to Okta, but you will not be able to use the image feature yet.
```
use log in to as separate words when it's a verb

## Write your Azure Serverless Function code

You'll need that `api/CreateBadge` endpoint to land somewhere. Open the Azure extension in VS Code, and use the `Static Web Apps` section to click **Create HTTP Function**. Select `javascript` as the language and name the function `CreateBadge`. The extension will create a new folder called `api` and another folder called `CreateBadge` with your Function code.

First, run `cd ../api` to enter the `api` folder (assuming you're still in `azure-static-app` folder). You can install your dependencies first.

```console
npm i @okta/jwt-verifier@2.3.0
npm i canvas@2.9.0
npm i parse-multipart-data@1.2.1
```

> `parse-multipart-data` will help parse the image from the request body. You will use `canvas` to modify the image. Finally, `@okta/jwt-verifier` will verify the token passed in the header to authenticate the user. As I mentioned before, but worth mentioning again, if you are using the standard pricing model, then the authentication can and should be handled in the Azure portal using a custom provider. However, you are stuck doing the dirty work yourself on the free tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`parse-multipart-data` will help parse the image from the request body. You will use `canvas` to modify the image. Finally, `@okta/jwt-verifier` will verify the token passed in the header to authenticate the user. As I mentioned before, but worth mentioning again, if you are using the standard pricing model, then the authentication can and should be handled in the Azure portal using a custom provider. However, you are stuck doing the work yourself on the free tier.
```
nuance

  // the user name instead of relying on the client to send it
  const firstLetter = parts.filter((r) => r.name === "firstLetter")[0].data.toString();

  const template = await loadImage(badgeTemplateUrl);
  ctx.drawImage(template, 0, 0, templateWH[0], templateWH[1]);

  ctx.font = "68px Calibri";
  ctx.fillStyle = "#fff";
  ctx.fillText(firstLetter, letterStart[0], letterStart[1]);

  const profileImage = await loadImage(parts[0].data);
  ctx.drawImage(profileImage, profilePictureStart[0], profilePictureStart[1], profilePictureWH[0], profilePictureWH[1]);

  return canvas;
};

module.exports = async function (context, req) {
  const accessToken = getAuthToken(req);
  const jwt = await oktaJwtVerifier.verifyAccessToken(accessToken, "api://default");

  const canvas = await drawImage(req);

  var stream = await canvas.pngStream();
  context.res.setHeader("Content-Type", "image/png");
  context.res.end(canvas.toBuffer("image/png"));
};
```

This file uses the `OktaJwtVerifier` to verify the token sent from the React front end. It does this by parsing the `okta-authorization` header. If the token is invalid, it will return a 403.

> The other primary function of this code is to take the image uploaded by the user and modify a template image by adding the uploaded image to it. You will also pull the user's name from the JWT and replace the name on the badge with the user's first letter of their first name. Like Agent J. Assuming this was all a success, you would return the image to the SPA to display to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other primary function of this code is to take the image uploaded by the user and modify a template image by adding the uploaded image to it. You will also pull the user's name from the JWT and replace the name on the badge with the first letter of the user's first name. Like Agent J. Assuming this was all a success, you would return the image to the SPA to display to the user.
```
clarity
Who is Agent J? Not seeing context in text or images. Does Agent J substitute for Agent N?

## Deploy your application to Azure Static Web Apps and Azure Functions

Click into the Azure VS Code extension again, and under the `Static Web Apps` section, click **Create Static Web App...**. Follow the prompts and add the following information. If you are new to Azure, you'll first need to create a "Subscription". Then answer the prompts as shown below:

* **Azure Subscription Name** - "My Azure Subscription"
* **Azure Web App name** - `azure-static-app`
* **GitHub repo** - `azure-static-app`
* **Commit Message** - `initial commit`
* **Region** - Select the region closest to you
* **Framework** - React
* **Root of your app** - `azure-static-app`
* **Root of your api** (if asked) - `api`
* **Build** - leave this blank

> Everything will need a few moments to build. This process will create a new git repo on your GitHub account, configure the CI/CD for Azure Static Web Apps using GitHub Actions, create your Azure Static Web App, and deploy your function and SPA code. Once it's all complete, you should be able to navigate to your newly created site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything will need a few moments to build. This process creates a new git repo on your GitHub account, configures the CI/CD for Azure Static Web Apps using GitHub Actions, creates your Azure Static Web App, and deploys your function and SPA code. Once it's complete, you should be able to navigate to your newly created site.
```
simplify tense

### Edit your Okta application

> You will need to configure your Okta application for your newly deployed application. You used your `localhost` settings when you first configured your application. Now you need to add your Azure settings as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to configure your Okta application for your newly deployed application. You used your `localhost` settings when you first configured your app. Now you need to add your Azure settings as well.
```

Edit your application and under the **Login** section, add your Azure domain with the `/login/callback` endpoint to the **Sign-in redirect URIs** section. Next, add the domain's home page to your **Sign-out redirect URIs** section.

{% img blog/react-azure-functions/edit-okta-application.jpg alt:"Screenshot depicting Okta application after updates to include new Azure domain" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

> Next navigate to **Security** > **API** and click **Trusted Origins**. Add your Azure domain to this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, navigate to **Security** > **API** and click **Trusted Origins**. Add your Azure domain to this list.
```

{% img blog/react-azure-functions/edit-okta-trusted-origins.jpg alt:"Screenshot depicting Okta trusted origins overview after updates to include new Azure domain" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

## Run your application

Finally, navigate back to your Azure domain and log in using Okta. Select an image you want to use for your profile picture and click **Upload**. After a moment, your function should return your new badge.

{% img blog/react-azure-functions/finished-app.jpg alt:"Screenshot depicting final application with a Men In Black Agent badge that includes a profile image of your choosing along with your name" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

### Use the Azure emulator

> If you've run into an error deploying and need to debug your project locally, you can use the [Azure Static Web App emulator](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/local-development) to tie your full product together. You'll need to install some npm packages to run both the web app and the api functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've run into an error deploying and need to debug your project locally, you can use the [Azure Static Web App emulator](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/static-web-apps/local-development) to tie your full product together. You'll need to install some npm packages to run both the web app and the API functions.
```
capitalize the acronym

In the terminal, run the following commands to install the necessary packages:

```console
npm install -g @azure/static-web-apps-cli azure-functions-core-tools
npm install -g azure-functions-core-tools@3 --unsafe-perm true
```

> Navigate to the root directory of the project and run the following command to start the _Static Web App_ emunlator, run the web app in dev mode, and also run the api function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the root directory of the project and run the following command to start the _Static Web App_ emunlator, run the web app in dev mode, and also run the API function:
```

```console
swa start http://localhost:4280 --app-location azure-static-app --run="npm start" --api-location ./api --func-args="--javascript"
```

> A note here, it's possible to run this app from the build directory, but you will lose the benefits of hot-reloading as you make changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to run this app from the build directory, but you will lose the benefits of hot-reloading as you make changes.
```

avoids repetition of "a note here..."

## Wrap up

> In this tutorial, you learned how to create a React app and deploy it to Azure as a Static Web App. You also learned how to build a Function in Azure and call that Function from your Static Web App. Finally, you learned how to secure both the Function and the Static Web App using Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to create a React app and deploy it to Azure as a Static Web App. You also learned how to build a Function in Azure and call it from your Static Web App. Finally, you learned how to secure both the Function and the Static Web App using Okta.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Want to explore some related resources for building apps on the Azure platform? Take a look at some of these other Okta Developer blog posts. 
```
missing a line of transition to resources...

---
layout: blog_post
title: "How to Build and Deploy a Serverless React App on Azure"
author: nickolas-fisher
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: "A tutorial that shows you how to build and deploy a React app that securely calls serverless functions on Azure."
tags: [react, azure, serverless, javascript]
tweets:
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
image:
type: conversion
github: https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-azure-functions-example
---

> Microsoft's Azure platform has as many high-tech products as anyone could ever want. Among these is the [Azure Static Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/static/). As the name suggests, the platform hosts static web apps that don't require a back end. Azure supports React, Angular, Vue, Gatsby, and many more out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft's Azure platform has as many high-tech products as anyone could ever want, including the [Azure Static Web Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/app-service/static/) service. As the name suggests, the platform hosts static web apps that don't require a back end. Azure supports React, Angular, Vue, Gatsby, and many more, out of the box.
```
conciseness

> However, you may run into a situation where you need a little back-end support. You can imagine where you might need the backend to run one or two API calls. For this task, Azure offers the [Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/functions/) platform as well. Functions is a serverless computing platform that supports .NET, Node.js, Python, etc. It takes setting up a server, building logging and exception handling, and providing a high availability environment at a reasonable price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you may run into situations where you want some back-end support, such as when you need the backend to run one or two API calls. For this task, Azure offers the [Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/functions/) platform as well. Functions is a serverless computing platform that supports .NET, Node.js, Python, etc. It takes care of setting up a server, builds logging and exception handling, and provides a high availability environment at a reasonable price.
```
conciseness. Also, should it say "takes care of"? - looks like the words are missing, but I may be wrong.

> This tutorial will show you how to create a React application and deploy it to Azure Static Web Apps. This application will be on the Azure free tier, so you will not be able to rely on the built-in authentication providers that connect Azure and Okta to handle the authentication. Therefore you will use the `okta-react` package from Okta to secure your SPA manually. Once the user authenticates, they may upload an image and receive a badge from a serverless Azure function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will show you how to create a React application and deploy it to Azure Static Web Apps. The application will be on the Azure free tier, so you will not be able to rely on the built-in authentication providers that connect Azure and Okta to handle the authentication. Therefore, you will use the `okta-react` package from Okta to secure your SPA (single-page application) manually. Once the user authenticates, they'll be able to upload an image and receive a badge from a serverless Azure function.
```
spell out acronym, simplify verb forms, avoid starting consecutive sentences with the same word - variety improves readability

> This function will handle the work of accepting the inputted image from the SPA and using a template to create a personalized badge for the user. Since you will be using the free version of Azure Static Web Apps, you will have to deploy the Function as a _Managed Azure Function_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This serverless function will handle the work of accepting the input image from the SPA and using a template to create a personalized badge for the user. Since you will be using the free version of Azure Static Web Apps, you will have to deploy the function as a _Managed Azure Function_.
```
inputted is not wrong, but input reads better and works as past tense.

You will write your application in Visual Studio Code and use the Azure extensions for Functions and Static Web Apps.

**Prerequisites**

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Azure Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/)
- [GitHub Account](https://www.github.com/)
- [Okta CLI](https://cli.okta.com)
  > [Okta](https://developer.okta.com/) has Authentication and User Management APIs that reduce development time with instant-on, scalable user infrastructure. Okta's intuitive API and expert support make it easy for developers to authenticate, manage and secure users and roles in any application.
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
  - [Azure Functions VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurefunctions) 
  - [Azure Static Web Apps VS Code Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-azurestaticwebapps)

> If you want to see the code, you can download it or fork it [on github](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-azure-functions-example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to see the code, you can download it or fork it [from the example on github](https://github.com/oktadev/okta-react-azure-functions-example).
```
more descriptive

**Table of Contents**{: .hide }
* Table of Contents
{:toc}

## Create your Okta application

{% include setup/cli.md type="spa" framework="React" loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:4280/login/callback" %}

## Create your React application

> The next step is to build your React application as your static web app. Begin as you would with most react apps by running `npx create-react-app azure-static-app`. After a few moments, your application will be ready to run. Once this happens, delete the `.gitignore` file and the `.git` folder that `create-react-app` produced. At this time, there is no way to prevent the task from adding these, but they will conflict with the Azure git files you will add soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to build your React application as a static web app. Begin as you would with most React apps by running `npx create-react-app azure-static-app`. After a few moments, your application will be ready to run. Once this happens, delete the `.gitignore` file and the `.git` folder that `create-react-app` produced. At this time, there is no way to prevent the task from adding these, but they will conflict with the Azure git files you will add soon.
```
clarity

> Start by adding the decencies you will need. `cd azure-static-app` into your react directory and run the following commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by adding the dependencies you will need. `cd azure-static-app` into your React directory and run the following commands.
```
is this a typo? Also, React should be capitalized consistently throughout since it names a framework (unless it's in code).

```console
npm i @okta/okta-auth-js@6.2.0
npm i @okta/okta-react@6.4.3
npm i react-router-dom@5.3.0
npm i bootstrap@5.1.3
```

> The `@okta/okta-react` library is the principal package you will use to log the user in. This package relies on `@okta/okta-auth-js` to work. `react-router-dom` will help secure your routes and provide a route for the `login/callback`. Finally, you will use bootstrap to style the site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@okta/okta-react` library is the principal package you will use to log the user in. This package relies on `@okta/okta-auth-js` to work. `react-router-dom` will help secure your routes and provide a route for the `login/callback`. Finally, you will use Bootstrap to style the site.
```
another name - capitalize

Next, replace the contents of `App.js` with the following code.

```jsx
import React from "react";
import { BrowserRouter as Router } from "react-router-dom";
import AppWithRouterAccess from "./AppWithRouterAccess";
import "bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css";

const App = () => {
  return (
    <Router>
      <AppWithRouterAccess />
    </Router>
  );
};

export default App;
```

> The coded you added makes the following changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code you've added makes the following changes:
```
typo. tense change

> - importing Bootstrap to style the application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Imports Bootstrap to style the application
```
using the active form of the verb for all the bullets, and capitalize each one

- prepare the application to use the `AppWithRouterAccess` method that you'll soon create

> - wrap the `BrowserRouter` component from `react-router-dom` so you can access the `Routes` and `Route` objects in child components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wraps the `BrowserRouter` component from `react-router-dom` so you can access the `Routes` and `Route` objects in child components
```
